Generate an admin automatically with nullos
====================================
2016-12-19 -- 2016-12-26



In this tutorial, we install an example database, then we generate an 
admin automatically (list and forms, basic crud).


Table of contents
---------------------
[TOC]



Install the nullos admin app
==============================
2016-12-19 -- 2016-12-26

First thing first, install the nullos admin application, and use the "oui" example database.

Since this is a must have, I moved this section to its own page here in the <-install nullos app tutorial->.

Follow the steps thoroughly then come back again, I'll be waiting for you.


Our next step is to create the crud files (lists and forms).



Create the crud files
========================
2016-12-19 -- 2016-12-26


To create a crud admin from scratch takes a long time (4-5 days?).
 
We are not going to do that, we will rather use the <-Crud module->, which does the job in one click (pretty cool, huh?).


So first, install the crud module.

If you don't know how to install a module, please read the <-install a module tutorial->, then come back.

When done, you will see a new "Crud generators" link in the "Tools" section on the left menu.

Click on it to open the <-crud module page-> (see screenshot below).

 
<!-crud-generators->

Make sure that you select the right database ("oui" in this case), and accept the defaults; click the submit button
to generate the crud files.

For more info about the different options, please read the <-Crud module documentation->.
 
 
Generating the "crud files" takes a while, depending on your database size, but ultimately you will 
see a success screen (see screenshot below).

<!-crud-generators-success->


Click the "click here" button in the success message, and you should have a new menu section labelled 
"Website" in the left menu.

Congratulations! You've just generated the crud files which allow interaction with your database(s).

The tutorial is now finished. 


If it's your first time, take the time to navigate and enjoy the new menu items in the "Website" section 
of the left menu. Try interacting with your database, sorting, searching through the items, editing
a particular row, deleting some others (don't be worry about deleting rows, you can always restore the
"oui" database in a few clicks using the <-sql tools built-in in module->).

 
The screenshot below represents an example list generated by the crud generators.

<!-crud-generator-list->


That's just the starting point.

If coding is one of your skills, then you will be able to customize further any form and/or list.

For more information about the "Crud generators" page, please visit the <-Crud module-> documentation.




The end
============

If you've made it so far, congratulations.

Hopefully you enjoyed it, and see you in a next tutorial.























